Fight Club by Chuck Palahniuk

Chapter 1
TYLER GETS ME a job as a waiter, after that Tyler's pushing a gun in my
mouth and saying, the first step to eternal life is you have to die. For a
long time though, Tyler and I were best friends. People are always asking,
did I know about Tyler Durden.
The barrel of the gun pressed against the back of my throat, Tyler says
"We really won't die."
With my tongue I can feel the silencer holes we drilled into the barrel of
the gun. Most of the noise a gunshot makes is expanding gases, and there's
the tiny sonic boom a bullet makes because it travels so fast. To make a
silencer, you just drill holes in the barrel of the gun, a lot of holes. This
lets the gas escape and slows the bullet to below the speed of sound.
You drill the holes wrong and the gun will blow off your hand.
"This isn't really death," Tyler says. "We'll be legend. We won't grow old."
I tongue the barrel into my cheek and say, Tyler, you're thinking of
vampires.
The building we're standing on won't be here in ten minutes. You take a
98percent concentration of fuming nitric acid and add the acid to three
times that amount of sulfuric acid. Do this in an ice bath. Then add
glycerin drop-by-drop with an eye dropper. You have nitroglycerin.
I know this because Tyler knows this.
Mix the nitro with sawdust, and you have a nice plastic explosive. A lot of
folks mix their nitro with cotton and add Epsom salts as a sulfate. This
works too. Some folks, they use paraffin mixed with nitro. Paraffin has
never, ever worked for me.
So Tyler and I are on top of the Parker-Morris Building with the gun stuck
in my mouth, and we hear glass breaking. Look over the edge. It's a
cloudy day, even this high up. This is the world's tallest building, and this
high up the wind is always cold. It's so quiet this high up, the feeling you
get is that you're one of those space monkeys. You do the little job you're
trained to do.
Pull a lever.
Push a button.
You don't understand any of it, and then you just die.
One hundred and ninety-one floors up, you look over the edge of the roof
and the street below is mottled with a shag carpet of people, standing,
looking up. The breaking glass is a window right below us. A window
blows out the side of the building, and then comes a file cabinet big as a
black refrigerator, right below us a six-drawer filing cabinet drops right
out of the cliff face of the building, and drops turning slowly, and drops
getting smaller, and drops disappearing into the packed crowd.
Somewhere in the one hundred and ninety-one floors under us, the space
monkeys in the Mischief Committee of Project Mayhem are running wild,
destroying every scrap of history.
That old saying, how you always kill the one you love, well, look, it works
both ways.
With a gun stuck in your mouth and the barrel of the gun between your
teeth, you can only talk in vowels.
We're down to our last ten minutes.
Another window blows out of the building, and glass sprays out, sparkling
flock-of-pigeons style, and then a dark wooden desk pushed by the
Mischief Committee emerges inch by inch from the side of the building
until the desk tilts and slides and turns end-over-end into a magic flying
thing lost in the crowd.
The Parker-Morris Building won't be here in nine minutes. You take
enough blasting gelatin and wrap the foundation columns of anything, you
can topple any building in the world. You have to tamp it good and tight
with sandbags so the blast goes against the column and not out into the
parking garage around the column.
This how-to stuff isn't in any history book.
The three ways to make napalm: One, you can mix equal parts of gasoline
and frozen orange juice concentrate. Two, you can mix equal parts of
gasoline and diet cola. Three, you can dissolve crumbled cat litter in
gasoline until the mixture is thick.
Ask me how to make nerve gas. Oh, all those crazy car bombs.
Nine minutes.
The Parker-Morris Building will go over, all one hundred and ninety-one
floors, slow as a tree falling in the forest. Timber. You can topple
anything. It's weird to think the place where we're standing will only be a
point in the sky.
Tyler and meat the edge of the roof, the gun in my mouth, I'm wondering
how clean this gun is.
We just totally forget about Tyler's whole murder-suicide thing while we
watch another file cabinet slip out the side of the building and the drawers
roll open midair, reams of white paper caught in the updraft and carried
off on the wind.
Eight minutes.
Then the smoke, smoke starts out of the broken windows. The demolition
team will hit the primary charge in maybe eight minutes. The primary
charge will blow the base charge, the foundation columns will crumble,
and the photo series of the Parker-Morris Building will go into all the
history books.
The five-picture time-lapse series. Here, the building's standing. Second
picture, the building will be at an eighty-degree angle. Then a seventy-
degree angle. The building's at a forty-five-degree angle in the fourth
picture when the skeleton starts to give and the tower gets a slight arch to
it. The last shot, the tower, all one hundred and ninety-one floors, will
slam down on the national museum which is Tyler's real target.
"This is our world, now, our world," Tyler says, "and those ancient people
are dead."
If I knew how this would all turn out, I'd be more than happy to be dead
and in Heaven right now.
Seven minutes.
Up on top of the Parker-Morris Building with Tyler's gun in my mouth.
While desks and filing cabinets and computers meteor down on the crowd
around the building and smoke funnels up from the broken windows and
three blocks down the street the demolition team watches the clock, I
know all of this: the gun, the anarchy, the explosion is really about Marla
Singer.
Six minutes.
We have sort of a triangle thing going here. I want Tyler. Tyler wants
Marla. Marla wants me.
I don't want Marla, and Tyler doesn't want me around, not anymore. This
isn't about love as in caring. This is about property as in ownership.
Without Marla, Tyler would have nothing.
Five minutes.
Maybe we would become a legend, maybe not. No, I say, but wait.
Where would Jesus be if no one had written the gospels?
Four minutes.
I tongue the gun barrel into my cheek and say, you want to be a legend,
Tyler, man, I'll make you a legend. I've been here from the beginning.
I remember everything.
Three minutes.

Chapter 2
BOB'S BIG ARMS were closed around to hold me inside, and I was
squeezed in the dark between Bob's new sweating tits that hang enormous,
the way we think of God's as big. Going around the church basement full
of men, each night we met: this is Art, this is Paul, this is Bob; Bob's big
shoulders made me think of the horizon. Bob's thick blond hair was what
you get when hair cream calls itself sculpting mousse, so thick and blond
and the part is so straight.
His arms wrapped around me, Bob's hand palms my head against the new
tits sprouted on his barrel chest.
"It will be alright," Bob says. "You cry now."
From my knees to my forehead, I feel chemical reactions within Bob
burning food and oxygen.
"Maybe they got it all early enough," Bob says. "Maybe it's just
seminoma. With seminoma, you have almost a hundred percent survival
rate."
Bob's shoulders inhale themselves up in a long draw, then drop, drop, drop
in jerking sobs. Draw themselves up. Drop, drop, drop.
I've been coming here every week for two years, and every week Bob
wraps his arms around me, and I cry.
"You cry," Bob says and inhales and sob, sob, sobs. "Go on now and cry."
The big wet face settles down on top of my head, and I am lost inside.
This is when I'd cry. Crying is right at hand in the smothering dark, closed
inside someone else, when you see how everything you can ever
accomplish will end up as trash.
Anything you're ever proud of will be thrown away.
And I'm lost inside.
This is as close as I've been to sleeping in almost a week.
This is how I met Marla Singer.
Bob cries because six months ago, his testicles were removed. Then
hormone support therapy. Bob has tits because his testosterone ration is
too high. Raise the testosterone level too much, your body ups the
estrogen to seek a balance.
This is when I'd cry because right now, your life comes down to nothing,
and not even nothing, oblivion.
Too much estrogen, and you get bitch tits.
It's easy to cry when you realize that everyone you love will reject you or
die. On a long enough time line, the survival rate for everyone will drop to
zero.
Bob loves me because he thinks my testicles were removed, too.
Around us in the Trinity Episcopal basement with the thrift store plaid
sofas are maybe twenty men and only one woman, all of them clung
together in pairs, most of them crying. Some pairs lean forward, heads
pressed ear-to-ear, the way wrestlers stand, locked. The man with the only
woman plants his elbows on her shoulders; one elbow on either side of her
head, her head between his hands, and his face crying against her neck.
The woman's face twists off to one side and her hand brings up a cigarette.
I peek out from under the armpit of Big Bob.
"All my life," Bob cries. "Why I do anything, I don't know."
The only woman here at Remaining Men Together, the testicular cancer
support group, this woman smokes her cigarette under the burden of a
stranger, and her eyes come together with mine.
Faker.
Faker.
Faker.
Short matte black hair, big eyes the way they are in Japanese animation,
skim milk thin, buttermilk sallow in her dress with a wallpaper pattern of
dark roses, this woman was also in my tuberculosis support group Friday
night. She was in my melanoma round table Wednesday night. Monday
night she was in my Firm Believers leukemia rap group. The part down
the center of her hair is a crooked lightning bolt of white scalp.
When you look for these support groups, they all have vague upbeat
names. My Thursday evening group for blood parasites, it's called Free
and Clear.
The group I go to for brain parasites is called Above and Beyond.
And Sunday afternoon at Remaining Men Together in the basement of
Trinity Episcopal, this woman is here, again.
Worse than that, I can't cry with her watching.
This should be my favorite part, being held and crying with Big Bob
without hope. We all work so hard all the time. This is the only place I
ever really relax and give up.
This is my vacation.
I went to my first support group two years ago, after I'd gone to my doctor
about my insomnia, again.
Three weeks and I hadn't slept. Three weeks without sleep, and everything
becomes an out-of-body experience. My doctor said, "Insomnia is just the
symptom of something larger. Find out what's actually wrong. Listen to
your body."
I just wanted to sleep. I wanted little blue Amytal Sodium capsules,
200milligram-sized. I wanted red-and-blue Tuinal bullet capsules, lipstick-
red Seconals.
My doctor told me to chew valerian root and get more exercise.
Eventually I'd fall asleep.
The bruised, old fruit way my face had collapsed, you would've thought I
was dead.
My doctor said, if I wanted to see real pain, I should swing by First
Eucharist on a Tuesday night. See the brain parasites. See the degenerative
bone diseases. The organic brain dysfunctions. See the cancer patients
getting by.
So I went.
The first group I went to, there were introductions: this is Alice, this is
Brenda, this is Dover. Everyone smiles with that invisible gun to their
head.
I never give my real name at support groups.
The little skeleton of a woman named Chloe with the seat of her pants
hanging down sad and empty, Chloe tells me the worst thing about her
brain parasites was no one would have sex with her. Here she was, so
close to death that her life insurance policy had paid off with seventy-five
thousand bucks, and all Chloe wanted was to get laid for the last time. Not
intimacy, sex.
What does a guy say? What can you say, I mean.
All this dying had started with Chloe being a little tired, and now Chloe
was too bored to go in for treatment. Pornographic movies, she had
pornographic movies at home in her apartment.
During the French Revolution, Chloe told me, the women in prison, the
duchesses, baronesses, marquises, whatever, they would screw any man
who'd climb on top. Chloe breathed against my neck. Climb on top. Pony
up, did I know. Screwing passed the time.
La petite mort, the French called it.
Chloe had pornographic movies, if I was interested. Amyl nitrate.
Lubricants.
Normal times, I'd be sporting an erection. Our Chloe, however, is a
skeleton dipped in yellow wax.
Chloe looking the way she is, I am nothing. Not even nothing. Still,
Chloe's shoulder pokes mine when we sit around a circle on the shag
carpet. We close our eyes. This was Chloe's turn to lead us in guided
meditation, and she talked us into the garden of serenity. Chloe talked us
up the hill to the palace of seven doors. Inside the palace were the seven
doors, the green door, the yellow door, the orange door, and Chloe talked
us through opening each door, the blue door, the red door, the white door,
and finding what was there.
Eyes closed, we imagined our pain as a ball of white healing light floating
around our feet and rising to our knees, our waist, our chest. Our chakras
opening. The heart chakra. The head chakra. Chloe talked us into caves
where we met our power animal. Mine was a penguin.
Ice covered the floor of the cave, and the penguin said, slide. Without any
effort, we slid through tunnels and galleries.
Then it was time to hug.
Open your eyes.
This was therapeutic physical contact, Chloe said. We should all choose a
partner. Chloe threw herself around my head and cried. She had strapless
underwear at home, and cried. Chloe had oils and handcuffs, and cried as I
watched the second hand on my watch go around eleven times.
So I didn't cry at my first support group, two years ago. I didn't cry at my
second or my third support group, either. I didn't cry at blood parasites or
bowel cancers or organic brain dementia.
This is how it is with insomnia. Everything is so far away, a copy of a
copy of a copy. The insomnia distance of everything, you can't touch
anything and nothing can touch you.
Then there was Bob. The first time I went to testicular cancer, Bob the big
moosie, the big cheesebread moved in on top of me in Remaining Men
Together and started crying. The big moosie treed right across the room
when it was hug time, his arms at his sides, his shoulders rounded. His big
moosie chin on his chest, his eyes already shrink-wrapped in tears.
Shuffling his feet, knees together invisible steps, Bob slid across the
basement floor to heave himself on me.
Bob pancaked down on me.
Bob's big arms wrapped around me.
Big Bob was a juicer, he said. All those salad days on Dianabol and then
the racehorse steroid, Wistrol. His own gym, Big Bob owned a gym. He'd
been married three times. He'd done product endorsements, and had I seen
him on television, ever? The whole how-to program about expanding your
chest was practically his invention.
Strangers with this kind of honesty make me go a big rubbery one, if you
know what I mean.
Bob didn't know. Maybe only one of his huevos had ever descended, and
he knew this was a risk factor. Bob told me about postoperative hormone
therapy.
A lot of bodybuilders shooting too much testosterone would get what they
called bitch tits.
I had to ask what Bob meant by huevos.
Huevos, Bob said. Gonads. Nuts. Jewels. Testes. Balls. In Mexico, where
you buy your steroids, they call them "eggs."
Divorce, divorce, divorce, Bob said and showed me a wallet photo of
himself huge and naked at first glance, in a posing strap at some contest.
It's a stupid way to live, Bob said, but when you're pumped and shaved on
stage, totally shredded with body fat down to around two percent and the
diuretics leave you cold and hard as concrete to touch, You're blind from
the lights, and deaf from the feedback rush of the sound system until the
judge orders: "Extend your right quad, flex and hold."
"Extend your left arm, flex the bicep and hold."
This is better than real life.
Fast-forward, Bob said, to the cancer. Then he was bankrupt. He had two
grown kids who wouldn't return his calls.
The cure for bitch tits was for the doctor to cut up under the pectorals and
drain any fluid.
This was all I remember because then Bob was closing in around me with
his arms, and his head was folding down to cover me. Then I was lost
inside oblivion, dark and silent and complete, and when I finally stepped
away from his soft chest, the front of Bob's shirt was a wet mask of how I
looked crying.
That was two years ago, at my first night with Remaining Men Together.
At almost every meeting since then, Big Bob has made me cry.
I never went back to the doctor. I never chewed the valerian root.
This was freedom. Losing all hope was freedom. If I didn't say anything,
people in a group assumed the worst. They cried harder. I cried harder.
Look up into the stars and you're gone.
Walking home after a support group, I felt more alive than I'd ever felt. I
wasn't host to cancer or blood parasites; I was the little warm center that
the life of the world crowded around.
And I slept. Babies don't sleep this well.
Every evening, I died, and every evening, I was born.
Resurrected.
Until tonight, two years of success until tonight, because I can't cry with
this woman watching me. Because I can't hit bottom, I can't be saved. My
tongue thinks it has flocked wallpaper, I'm biting the inside of my mouth
so much. I haven't slept in four days.
With her watching, I'm a liar. She's a fake. She's the liar. At the
introductions tonight, we introduced ourselves: I'm Bob, I'm Paul, I'm
Terry, I'm David.
I never give my real name.
"'This is cancer, right?" she said.
Then she said, "Well, hi, I'm Marla Singer."
Nobody ever told Marla what kind of cancer. Then we were all busy
cradling our inner child.
The man still crying against her neck, Marla takes another drag on her
cigarette.
I watch her from between Bob's shuddering tits.
To Marla I'm a fake. Since the second night I saw her, I can't sleep. Still, I
was the first fake, unless, maybe all these people are faking with their
lesions and their coughs and tumors, even Big Bob, the big moosie. The
big cheesebread.
Would you just look at his sculpted hair.
Marla smokes and rolls her eyes now.
In this one moment, Marla's lie reflects my lie, and all I can see are lies. In
the middle of all their truth. Everyone clinging and risking to share their
worst fear, that their death is coming head-on and the barrel of a gun is
pressed against the back of their throats. Well, Marla is smoking and
rolling her eyes, and me, I'm buried under a sobbing carpet, and all of a
sudden even death and dying rank right down there with plastic flowers on
video as a non-event.
"Bob," I say, "you're crushing me." I try to whisper, then I don't. "Bob." I
try to keep my voice down, then I'm yelling. "Bob, I have to go to the
can."
A mirror hangs over the sink in the bathroom. If the pattern holds, I'll see
Marla Singer at Above and Beyond, the parasitic brain dysfunction group.
Marla will be there. Of course, Marla will be there, and what I'll do is sit
next to her. And after the introductions and the guided meditation, the
seven doors of the palace, the white healing ball of light, after we open our
chakras, when it comes time to hug, I'll grab the little bitch.
Her arms squeezed tight against her sides, and my lips pressed against her
ear, I'll say, Marla, you big fake, you get out.
This is the one real thing in my life, and you're wrecking it.
You big tourist.
The next time we meet, I'll say, Marla, I can't sleep with you here. I need
this. Get out.

A single frame in a movie is on the screen for one-sixtieth of a second.
Divide a second into sixty equal parts. That's how long the erection is.
Towering four stories tall over the popcorn auditorium, slippery red and
terrible, and no one sees it.
You wake up at Logan, again.
This is a terrible way to travel. I go to meetings my boss doesn't want to
attend. I take notes. I'll get back to you.
Wherever I'm going, I'll be there to apply the formula. I'll keep the secret
intact.
It's simple arithmetic.
It's a story problem.
If a new car built by my company leaves Chicago traveling west at 60
miles per hour, and the rear differential locks up, and the car crashes and
burns with everyone trapped inside, does my company initiate a recall?
You take the population of vehicles in the field (A) and multiply it by the
probable rate of failure (B), then multiply the result by the average cost of
an out-of-court settlement (C).
A times B times C equals X. This is what it will cost if we don't initiate a
recall.
If X is greater than the cost of a recall, we recall the cars and no one gets
hurt.
If X is less than the cost of a recall, then we don't recall.
Everywhere I go, there's the burned-up wadded-up shell of a car waiting
for me. I know where all the skeletons are. Consider this my job security.
Hotel time, restaurant food. Everywhere I go, I make tiny friendships with
the people sitting beside me from Logan to Krissy to Willow Run.
What I am is a recall campaign coordinator, I tell the single-serving friend
sitting next to me, but I'm working toward a career as a dishwasher.
You wake up at O'Hare, again.
Tyler spliced a penis into everything after that. Usually, close-ups, or a
Grand Canyon vagina with an echo, four stories tall and twitching with
blood pressure as Cinderella danced with her Prince Charming and people
watched. Nobody complained. People ate and drank, but the evening
wasn't the same. People feel sick or start to cry and don't know why. Only
a hummingbird could have caught Tyler at work.
You wake up at JFK.
I melt and swell at the moment of landing when one wheel thuds on the
runway but the plane leans to one side and hangs in the decision to right
itself or roll. For this moment, nothing matters. Look up into the stars and
you're gone. Not your luggage. Nothing matters. Not your bad breath. The
windows are dark outside and the turbine engines roar backward. The
cabin hangs at the wrong angle under the roar of the turbines, and you will
never have to file another expense account claim. Receipt required for
items over twenty-five dollars. You will never have to get another haircut.
A thud, and the second wheel hits the tarmac. The staccato of a hundred
seatbelt buckles snapping open, and the single-use friend you almost died
sitting next to says:
I hope you make your connection.
Yeah, me too.
And this is how long your moment lasted. And life goes on.
And somehow, by accident, Tyler and I met.
It was time for a vacation.
You wake up at LAX.
Again.
How I met Tyler was I went to a nude beach. This was the very end of
summer, and I was asleep. Tyler was naked and sweating, gritty with sand,
his hair wet and stringy, hanging in his face.
Tyler had been around a long time before we met.
Tyler was pulling driftwood logs out of the surf and dragging them up the
beach. In the wet sand, he'd already planted a half circle of logs so they
stood a few inches apart and as tall as his eyes. There were four logs, and
when I woke up, I watched Tyler pull a fifth log up the beach. Tyler dug a
hole under one end of the log, then lifted the other end until the log slid
into the hole and stood there at a slight angle.
You wake up at the beach.
We were the only people on the beach.
With a stick, Tyler drew a straight line in the sand several feet away. Tyler
went back to straighten the log by stamping sand around its base.
I was the only person watching this.
Tyler called over, "Do you know what time it is?"
I always wear a watch.
"Do you know what time it is?"
I asked, where?
"Right here," Tyler said. "Right now."
It was 4:06 P.m.
After a while, Tyler sat cross-legged in the shadow of the standing logs.
Tyler sat for a few minutes, got up and took a swim, pulled on a T-shirt
and a pair of sweatpants, and started to leave. I had to ask.
I had to know what Tyler was doing while I was asleep.
If I could wake up in a different place, at a different time, could I wake up
as a different person?
I asked if Tyler was an artist.
Tyler shrugged and showed me how the five standing logs were wider at
the base. Tyler showed me the line he'd drawn in the sand, and how he'd
use the line to gauge the shadow cast by each log.
Sometimes, you wake up and have to ask where you are.
What Tyler had created was the shadow of a giant hand. Only now the
fingers were Nosferatu-long and the thumb was too short, but he said how
at exactly four-thirty the hand was perfect. The giant shadow hand was
perfect for one minute, and for one perfect minute Tyler had sat in the
palm of a perfection he'd created himself.
You wake up, and you're nowhere.
One minute was enough, Tyler said, a person had to work hard for it, but a
minute of perfection was worth the effort. A moment was the most you
could ever expect from perfection.
You wake up, and that's enough.
His name was Tyler Durden, and he was a movie projectionist with the
union, and he was a banquet waiter at a hotel, downtown, and he gave me
his phone number.
And this is how we met.
A L L T H E U S U A L brain parasites are here, tonight. Above and
Beyond always gets a big turnout. This is Peter. This is Aldo. This is
Marcy.
Hi.
The introductions, everybody, this is Marla Singer, and this is her first
time with us.
Hi, Marla.
At Above and Beyond, we start with the Catch-Up Rap. The group isn't
called Parasitic Brain Parasites. You'll never hear anyone say "parasite."
Everybody is always getting better. Oh, this new medication. Everyone's
always just turned the corner. Still, everywhere, there's the squint of a
five-day headache. A woman wipes at involuntary tears. Everyone gets a
name tag, and people you've met every Tuesday night for a year, they
come at you, handshake hand ready and their eyes on your name tag.
I don't believe we've met.
No one will ever say parasite. They'll say, agent.
They don't say cure. They'll say, treatment.
In Catch-Up Rap, someone will say how the agent has spread into his
spinal column and now all of a sudden he'll have no control of his left
hand. The agent, someone will say, has dried the lining of his brain so now
the brain pulls away from the inside of his skull, causing seizures.
The last time I was here, the woman named Chloe announced the only
good news she had. Chloe pushed herself to her feet against the wooden
arms of her chair and said she no longer had any fear of death.
Tonight, after the introductions and Catch-Up Rap, a girl I don't know,
with a name tag that says Glenda, says she's Chloe's sister and that at two
in the morning last Tuesday, Chloe finally died.
Oh, this should be so sweet. For two years, Chloe's been crying in my
arms during hug time, and now she's dead, dead in the ground, dead in an
urn, mausoleum, columbarium. Oh, the proof that one day you're thinking
and hauling yourself around, and the next, you're cold fertilizer, worm
buffet. This is the amazing miracle of death, and it should be so sweet if it
weren't for, oh, that one.
Marla.
Oh, and Marla's looking at me again, singled out among all the brain
parasites.
Liar.
Faker.
Marla's the faker. You're the faker. Everyone around when they wince or
twitch and fall down barking and the crotch of their jeans turns dark blue,
well, it's all just a big act.
Guided meditation all of a sudden won't take me anywhere, tonight.
Behind each of the seven palace doors, the green door, the orange door,
Marla. The blue door, Marla stands there. Liar. In the guided meditation
through the cave of my power animal, my power animal is Marla.
Smoking her cigarette, Marla, rolling her eyes. Liar. Black hair and
pillowy French lips. Faker. Italian dark leather sofa lips. You can't escape.
Chloe was the genuine article.
Chloe was the way Joni Mitchell's skeleton would look if you made it
smile and walk around a party being extra special nice to everyone.
Picture Chloe's popular skeleton the size of an insect, running through the
vaults and galleries of her innards at two in the morning. Her pulse a siren
overhead, announcing: Prepare for death in ten, in nine, in eight seconds.
Death will commence in seven, six . . .
At night, Chloe ran around the maze of her own collapsing veins and burst
tubes spraying hot lymph. Nerves surface as trip wires in the tissue.
Abscesses swell in the tissue around her as hot white pearls.
The overhead announcement, prepare to evacuate bowels in ten, in nine,
eight, seven.
Prepare to evacuate soul in ten, in nine, eight.
Chloe's splashing through the ankle-deep backup of renal fluid from her
failed kidneys.
Death will commence in five.
Five, four.
Four.
Around her, parasitic life spray paints her heart.
Four, three.
Three, two.
Chloe climbs hand-over-hand up the curdled lining of her own throat.
Death to commence in three, in two.
Moonlight shines in through the open mouth.
Prepare for the last breath, now.
Evacuate.
Now.
Soul clear of body.
Now.
Death commences.
Now.
Oh, this should be so sweet, the remembered warm jumble of Chloe still in
my arms and Chloe dead somewhere.
But no, I'm watched by Marla.
In guided meditation, I open my arms to receive my inner child, and the
child is Marla smoking her cigarette. No white healing ball of light. Liar.
No chakras. Picture your chakras opening as flowers and at the center of
each is a slow motion explosion of sweet light.
Liar.
My chakras stay closed.
When meditation ends, everyone is stretching and twisting their heads and
pulling each other to their feet in preparation. Therapeutic physical
contact. For the hug, I cross in three steps to stand against Marla who
looks up into my face as I watch everyone else for the cue.
Let's all, the cue comes, embrace someone near us.
My arms clamp around Marla.
Pick someone special to you, tonight.
Marla's cigarette hands are pinned to her waist.
Tell this someone how you feel.
Marla doesn't have testicular cancer. Marla doesn't have tuberculosis. She
isn't dying. Okay in that brainy brain-food philosophy way, we're all
dying, but Marla isn't dying the way Chloe was dying.
The cue comes, share yourself.
So, Marla, how do you like them apples?
Share yourself completely.
So, Marla, get out. Get out. Get out.
Go ahead and cry if you have to.
Marla stares up at me. Her eyes are brown. Her earlobes pucker around
earring holes, no earrings. Her chapped lips are frosted with dead skin.
Go ahead and cry.
"You're not dying either," Marla says.
Around us, couples stand sobbing, propped against each other.
"You tell on me," Marla says, "and I'll tell on you."
Then we can split the week, I say. Marla can have bone disease, brain
parasites, and tuberculosis. I'll keep testicular cancer, blood parasites, and
organic brain dementia.
Marla says, "What about ascending bowel cancers?"
The girl has done her homework.
We'll split bowel cancer. She gets it the first and third Sunday of every
month.
"No," Marla says. No, she wants it all. The cancers, the parasites. Marla's
eyes narrow. She never dreamed she could feel so 'smarvelous. She
actually felt alive. Her skin was clearing up. All her life, she never saw a
dead person. There was no real sense of life because she had nothing to
contrast it with. Oh, but now there was dying and death and loss and grief.
Weeping and shuddering, terror and remorse. Now that she knows where
we're all going, Marla feels every moment of her life.
No, she wasn't leaving any group.
"Not and go back to the way life felt before," Marla says. "I used to work
in a funeral home to feel good about myself, just the fact I was breathing.
So what if I couldn't get a job in my field."
Then go back to your funeral home, I say.
"Funerals are nothing compared to this," Marla says. "Funerals are all
abstract ceremony. Here, you have a real experience of death."
Couples around the two of us are drying their tears, sniffing, patting each
other on the back and letting go.
We can't both come, I tell her.
"Then don't come." I need this. "Then go to funerals." Everyone else has
broken apart and they're joining hands for the closing prayer. I let Marla
go. "How long have you been coming here?" The closing prayer. Two
years. A man in the prayer circle takes my hand. A man takes Marla's
hand. These prayers start and usually, my breathing is blown. Oh, bless us.
Oh, bless us in our anger and our fear. "Two years?" Marla tilts her head
to whisper. Oh, bless us and hold us. Anyone who might've noticed me in
two years has either died or recovered and never came back. Help us and
help us. "Okay," Marla says, "okay, okay, you can have testicular cancer."
Big Bob the big cheesebread crying all over me. Thanks. Bring us to our
destiny. Bring us peace. "Don't mention it." This is how I met Marla.

Chapter 4
THE SECURITY TASK force guy explained everything to me.
Baggage handlers can ignore a ticking suitcase. The security task force
guy, he called baggage handlers Throwers. Modern bombs don't tick. But
a suitcase that vibrates, the baggage handlers, the Throwers, have to call
the police.
How I came to live with Tyler is because most airlines have this policy
about vibrating baggage.
My flight back from Dulles, I had everything in that one bag. When you
travel a lot, you learn to pack the same for every trip. Six white shirts.
Two black trousers. The bare minimum you need to survive.
Traveling alarm clock.
Cordless electric razor.
Toothbrush.
Six pair underwear.
Six pair black socks.
It turns out, my suitcase was vibrating on departure from Dulles,
according to the security task force guy, so the police took it off the flight.
Everything was in that bag. My contact lens stuff. One red tie with blue
stripes. One blue tie with red stripes. These are regimental stripes, not club
tie stripes. And one solid red tie.
A list of all these things used to hang on the inside of my bedroom door at
home.
Home was a condominium on the fifteenth floor of a high-rise, a sort of
filing cabinet for widows and young professionals. The marketing
brochure promised a foot of concrete floor, ceiling, and wall between me
and any adjacent stereo or turned-up television. A foot of concrete and air
conditioning, you couldn't open the windows so even with maple flooring
and dimmer switches, all seventeen hundred airtight feet would smell like
the last meal you cooked or your last trip to the bathroom.
Yeah, and there were butcher block countertops and low-voltage track
lighting.
Still, a foot of concrete is important when your next-door neighbor lets the
battery on her hearing aid go and has to watch her game shows at full
blast. Or when a volcanic blast of burning gas and debris that used to be
your living-room set and personal effects blows out your floor-to-ceiling
windows and sails down flaming to leave just your condo, only yours, a
gutted charred concrete hole in the cliffside of the building.
These things happen.
Everything, including your set of hand-blown green glass dishes with the
tiny bubbles and imperfections, little bits of sand, proof they were crafted
by the honest, simple, hard-working indigenous aboriginal peoples of
wherever, well, these dishes all get blown out by the blast. Picture the
floor-to-ceiling drapes blown out and flaming to shreds in the hot wind.
Fifteen floors over the city, this stuff comes flaming and bashing and
shattering down on everyone's car.
Me, while I'm heading west, asleep at Mach 0.83 or 455 miles an hour,
true airspeed, the FBI is bomb-squading my suitcase on a vacated runway
back at Dulles. Nine times out of ten, the security task force guy says, the
vibration is an electric razor. This was my cordless electric razor. The
other time, it's a vibrating dildo.
The security task force guy told me this. This was at my destination,
without my suitcase, where I was about to cab it home and find my flannel
sheets shredded on the ground.
Imagine, the task force guy says, telling a passenger on arrival that a dildo
kept her baggage on the East Coast. Sometimes it's even a man. It's airline
policy not to imply ownership in the event of a dildo. Use the indefinite
article.
A dildo.
Never your dildo.
Never, ever say the dildo accidentally turned itself on.
A dildo activated itself and created an emergency situation that required
evacuating your baggage.
Rain was falling when I woke up for my connection in Stapleton.
Rain was falling when I woke up on our final approach to home.
An announcement told us to please take this opportunity to check around
our seats for any personal belongings we might have left behind. Then the
announcement said my name. Would I please meet with an airline
representative waiting at the gate.
I set my watch back three hours, and it was still after midnight.
There was the airline representative at the gate, and there was the security
task force guy to say, ha, your electric razor kept your checked baggage at
Dulles. The task force guy called the baggage handlers Throwers. Then he
called them Rampers. To prove things could be worse, the guy told me at
least it wasn't a dildo. Then, maybe because I'm a guy and he's a guy and
it's one o'clock in the morning, maybe to make me laugh, the guy said
industry slang for flight attendant was Space Waitress. Or Air Mattress. It
looked like the guy was wearing a pilot's uniform, white shirt with little
epaulets and a blue tie. My luggage had been cleared, he said, and would
arrive the next day.
The security guy asked my name and address and phone number, and then
he asked me what was the difference between a condom and a cockpit.
"You can only get one prick into a condom," he said.
I cabbed home on my last ten bucks.
The local police had been asking a lot of questions, too.
My electric razor, which wasn't a bomb, was still three time zones behind
me.
Something which was a bomb, a big bomb, had blasted my clever
Njurunda coffee tables in the shape of a lime green yin and an orange yang
that fit together to make a circle. Well they were splinters, now.
My Haparanda sofa group with the orange slip covers, design by Erika
Pekkari, it was trash, now.
And I wasn't the only slave to my nesting instinct. The people I know who
used to sit in the bathroom with pornography, now they sit in the bathroom
with their IKEA furniture catalogue.
We all have the same Johanneshov armchair in the Strinne green stripe
pattern. Mine fell fifteen stories, burning, into a fountain.
We all have the same Rislampa/Har paper lamps made from wire and
environmentally friendly unbleached paper. Mine are confetti.
All that sitting in the bathroom.
The Alle cutlery service. Stainless steel. Dishwasher safe.
The Vild hall clock made of galvanized steel, oh, I had to have that.
The Klipsk shelving unit, oh, yeah.
Hemlig hat boxes. Yes.
The street outside my high-rise was sparkling and scattered with all this.
The Mommala quilt-cover set. Design by Tomas Harila and available in
the following:
Orchid.
Fuschia.
Cobalt.
Ebony.
Jet.
Eggshell or heather.
It took my whole life to buy this stuff.
The easy-care textured lacquer of my Kalix occasional tables.
My Steg nesting tables.
You buy furniture. You tell yourself, this is the last sofa I will ever need in
my life. Buy the sofa, then for a couple years you're satisfied that no
matter what goes wrong, at least you've got your sofa issue handled. Then
the right set of dishes. Then the perfect bed. The drapes. The rug.
Then you're trapped in your lovely nest, and the things you used to own,
now they own you.
Until I got home from the airport.
The doorman steps out of the shadows to say, there's been an accident.
The police, they were here and asked a lot of questions.
The police think maybe it was the gas. Maybe the pilot light on the stove
went out or a burner was left on, leaking gas, and the gas rose to the
ceiling, and the gas filled the condo from ceiling to floor in every room.
The condo was seventeen hundred square feet with high ceilings and for
days and days, the gas must've leaked until every room was full. When the
rooms were filled to the floor, the compressor at the base of the
refrigerator clicked on.
Detonation.
The floor-to-ceiling windows in their aluminum frames went out and the
sofas and the lamps and dishes and sheet sets in flames, and the high
school annuals and the diplomas and telephone. Everything blasting out
from the fifteenth floor in a sort of solar flare.
Oh, not my refrigerator. I'd collected shelves full of different mustards,
some stone-ground, some English pub style. There were fourteen different
flavors of fat-free salad dressing, and seven kinds of capers.
I know, I know, a house full of condiments and no real food.
The doorman blew his nose and something went into his handkerchief
with the good slap of a pitch into a catcher's mitt.
You could go up to the fifteen floor, the doorman said, but nobody could
go into the unit. Police orders. The police had been asking, did I have an
old girlfriend who'd want to do this or did I make an enemy of somebody
who had access to dynamite.
"It wasn't worth going up," the doorman said. "All that's left is the
concrete shell."
The police hadn't ruled out arson. No one had smelled gas. The doorman
raises an eyebrow. This guy spent his time flirting with the day maids and
nurses who worked in the big units on the top floor and waited in the
lobby chairs for their rides after work. Three years I lived here, and the
doorman still sat reading his Ellery Queen magazine every night while I
shifted packages and bags to unlock the front door and let myself in.
The doorman raises an eyebrow and says how some people will go on a
long trip and leave a candle, a long, long candle burning in a big puddle of
gasoline. People with financial difficulties do this stuff. People who want
out from under.
I asked to use the lobby phone.
"A lot of young people try to impress the world and buy too many things,"
the doorman said.
I called Tyler.
The phone rang in Tyler's rented house on Paper Street.
Oh, Tyler, please deliver me.
And the phone rang.
The doorman leaned into my shoulder and said, "A lot of young people
don't know what they really want."
Oh, Tyler, please rescue me.
And the phone rang.
"Young people, they think they want the whole world."
Deliver me from Swedish furniture.
Deliver me from clever art.
And the phone rang and Tyler answered.
"If you don't know what you want," the doorman said, "you end up with a
lot you don't."
May I never be complete.
May I never be content.
May I never be perfect.
Deliver me, Tyler, from being perfect and complete.
Tyler and I agreed to meet at a bar.
The doorman asked for a number where the police could reach me. It was
still raining. My Audi was still parked in the lot, but a Dakapo halogen
torchiere was speared through the windshield.
Tyler and I, we met and drank a lot of beer, and Tyler said, yes, I could
move in with him, but I would have to do him a favor.
The next day, my suitcase would arrive with the bare minimum, six shirts,
six pair of underwear.
There, drunk in a bar where no one was watching and no one would care, I
asked Tyler what he wanted me to do.
Tyler said, "I want you to hit me as hard as you can."

Chapter 5
TWO SCREENS INTO my demo to Microsoft, I taste blood and have to
start swallowing. My boss doesn't know the material, but he won't let me
run the demo with a black eye and half my face swollen from the stitches
inside my cheek. The stitches have come loose, and I can feel them with
my tongue against the inside of my cheek. Picture snarled fishing line on
the beach. I can picture them as the black stitches on a dog after it's been
fixed, and I keep swallowing blood. My boss is making the presentation
from my script, and I'm running the laptop projector so I'm off to one side
of the room, in the dark.
More of my lips are sticky with blood as I try to lick the blood off, and
when the lights come up, I will turn to consultants Ellen and Walter and
Norbert and Linda from Microsoft and say, thank you for coming, my
mouth shining with blood and blood climbing the cracks between my
teeth.
You can swallow about a pint of blood before you're sick.
Fight club is tomorrow, and I'm not going to miss fight club.
Before the presentation, Walter from Microsoft smiles his steam shovel
jaw like a marketing tool tanned the color of a barbecued potato chip.
Walter with his signet ring shakes my hand, wrapped in his smooth soft
hand and says, "I'd hate to see what happened to the other guy."
The first rule about fight club is you don't talk about fight club.
I tell Walter I fell.
I did this to myself.
Before the presentation, when I sat across from my boss, telling him where
in the script each slide cues and when I wanted to run the video segment,
my boss says, "What do you get yourself into every weekend?"
I just don't want to die without a few scars, I say. It's nothing anymore to
have a beautiful stock body. You see those cars that are completely stock
cherry, right out of a dealer's showroom in 1955, I always think, what a
waste.
The second rule about fight club is you don't talk about fight club.
Maybe at lunch, the waiter comes to your table and the waiter has the two
black eyes of a giant panda from fight club last weekend when you saw
him get his head pinched between the concrete floor and the knee of a
two-hundred pound stock boy who kept slamming a fist into the bridge of
the waiter's nose again and again in flat hard packing sounds you could
hear over all the yelling until the waiter caught enough breath and sprayed
blood to say, stop.
You don't say anything because fight club exists only in the hours between
when fight club starts and when fight club ends.
You saw the kid who works in the copy center, a month ago you saw this
kid who can't remember to three-hole-punch an order or put colored slip
sheets between the copy packets, but this kid was a god for ten minutes
when you saw him kick the air out of an account representative twice his
size then land on the man and pound him limp until the kid had to stop.
That's the third rule in fight club, when someone says stop, or goes limp,
even if he's just faking it, the fight is over. Every time you see this kid,
you can't tell him what a great fight he had.
Only two guys to a fight. One fight at a time. They fight without shirts or
shoes. The fights go on as long as they have to. Those are the other rules
of fight club.
Who guys are in fight club is not who they are in the real world. Even if
you told the kid in the copy center that he had a good fight, you wouldn't
be talking to the same man.
Who I am in fight club is not someone my boss knows.
After a night in fight club, everything in the real world gets the volume
turned down. Nothing can piss you off. Your word is law, and if other
people break that law or question you, even that doesn't piss you off.
In the real world, I'm a recall campaign coordinator in a shirt and tie,
sitting in the dark with a mouthful of blood and changing the overheads
and slides as my boss tells Microsoft how he chose a particular shade of
pale cornflower blue for an icon.
The first fight club was just Tyler and I pounding on each other.
It used to be enough that when I came home angry and knowing that my
life wasn't toeing my five-year plan, I could clean my condominium or
detail my car. Someday I'd be dead without a scar and there would be a
really nice condo and car. Really, really nice, until the dust settled or the
next owner. Nothing is static. Even the Mona Lira is falling apart. Since
fight club, I can wiggle half the teeth in my jaw.
Maybe self-improvement isn't the answer.
Tyler never knew his father.
Maybe self-destruction is the answer.
Tyler and I still go to fight club, together. Fight club is in the basement of
a bar, now, after the bar closes on Saturday night, and every week you go
and there's more guys there.
Tyler gets under the one light in the middle of the black concrete basement
and he can see that light flickering back out of the dark in a hundred pairs
of eyes. First thing Tyler yells is, "The first rule about fight club is you
don't talk about fight club.
"The second rule about fight club," Tyler yells, "is you don't talk about
fight club."
Me, I knew my dad for about six years, but I don't remember anything. My
dad, he starts a new family in a new town about every six years. This isn't
so much like a family as it's like he sets up a franchise.
What you see at fight club is a generation of men raised by women.
Tyler standing under the one light in the after-midnight blackness of a
basement full of men, Tyler runs through the other rules: two men per
fight, one fight at a time, no shoes no shirts, fights go on as long as they
have to.
"And the seventh rule," Tyler yells, "is if this is your first night at fight
club, you have to fight."
Fight club is not football on television. You aren't watching a bunch of
men you don't know halfway around the world beating on each other live
by satellite with a two-minute delay, commercials pitching beer every ten
minutes, and a pause now for station identification. After you've been to
fight club, watching football on television is watching pornography when
you could be having great sex.
Fight club gets to be your reason for going to the gym and keeping your
hair cut short and cutting your nails. The gyms you go to are crowded with
guys trying to look like men, as if being a man means looking the way a
sculptor or an art director says.
Like Tyler says, even a snuffle looks pumped.
My father never went to college so it was really important I go to college.
After college, I called him long distance and said, now what?
My dad didn't know.
When I got a job and turned twenty-five, long distance, I said, now what?
My dad didn't know, so he said, get married.
I'm a thirty-year-old boy, and I'm wondering if another woman is really
the answer I need.
What happens at fight club doesn't happen in words. Some guys need a
fight every week. This week, Tyler says it's the first fifty guys through the
door and that's it. No more.
Last week, I tapped a guy and he and I got on the list for a fight. This guy
must've had a bad week, got both my arms behind my head in a full nelson
and rammed my face into the concrete floor until my teeth bit open the
inside of my cheek and my eye was swollen shut and was bleeding, and
after I said, stop, I could look down and there was a print of half my face
in blood on the floor.
Tyler stood next to me, both of us looking down at the big O of my mouth
with blood all around it and the little slit of my eye staring up at us from
the floor, and Tyler says, "Cool."
I shake the guy's hand and say, good fight.
This guy, he says, "How about next week?"
I try to smile against all the swelling, and I say, look at me. How about
next month?
You aren't alive anywhere like you're alive at fight club. When it's you and
one other guy under that one light in the middle of all those watching.
Fight club isn't about winning or losing fights. Fight club isn't about
words. You see a guy come to fight club for the first time, and his ass is a
loaf of white bread. You see this same guy here six months later, and he
looks carved out of wood. This guy trusts himself to handle anything.
There's grunting and noise at fight club like at the gym, but fight club isn't
about looking good. There's hysterical shouting in tongues like at church,
and when you wake up Sunday afternoon you feel saved.
After my last fight, the guy who fought me mopped the floor while I
called my insurance to pre-approve a visit to the emergency room. At the
hospital, Tyler tells them I fell down.
Sometimes, Tyler speaks for me.
I did this to myself.
Outside, the sun was coming up.
You don't talk about fight club because except for five hours from two
until seven on Sunday morning, fight club doesn't exist.
When we invented fight club, Tyler and I, neither of us had ever been in a
fight before. If you've never been in a fight, you wonder. About getting
hurt, about what you're capable of doing against another man. I was the
first guy Tyler ever felt safe enough to ask, and we were both drunk in a
bar where no one would care so Tyler said, "I want you to do me a favor. I
want you to hit me as hard as you can."
I didn't want to, but Tyler explained it all, about not wanting to die without
any scars, about being tired of watching only professionals fight, and
wanting to know more about himself.
About self-destruction.
At the time, my life just seemed too complete, and maybe we have to
break everything to make something better out of ourselves.
I looked around and said, okay. Okay, I say, but outside in the parking lot.
So we went outside, and I asked if Tyler wanted it in the face or in the
stomach.
Tyler said, "Surprise me."
I said I had never hit anybody.
Tyler said, "So go crazy, man."
I said, close your eyes.
Tyler said, "No."
Like every guy on his first night in fight club, I breathed in and swung my
fist in a roundhouse at Tyler's jaw like in every cowboy movie we'd ever
seen, and me, my fist connected with the side of Tyler's neck.
Shit, I said, that didn't count. I want to try it again.
Tyler said, "Yeah it counted," and hit me, straight on, pox, just like a
cartoon boxing glove on a spring on Saturday morning cartoons, right in
the middle of my chest and I fell back against a car. We both stood there,
Tyler rubbing the side of his neck and me holding a hand on my chest,
both of us knowing we'd gotten somewhere we'd never been and like the
cat and mouse in cartoons, we were still alive and wanted to see how far
we could take this thing and still be alive.
Tyler said, "Cool."
I said, hit me again.
Tyler said, "No, you hit me."
So I hit him, a girl's wide roundhouse to right under his ear, and Tyler
shoved me back and stomped the heel of his shoe in my stomach. What
happened next and after that didn't happen in words, but the bar closed and
people came out and shouted around us in the parking lot.
Instead of Tyler, I felt finally I could get my hands on everything in the
world that didn't work, my cleaning that came back with the collar buttons
broken, the bank that says I'm hundreds of dollars overdrawn. My job
where my boss got on my computer and fiddled with my DOS execute
commands. And Marla Singer, who stole the support groups from me.
Nothing was solved when the fight was over, but nothing mattered.
The first night we fought was a Sunday night, and Tyler hadn't shaved all
weekend so my knuckles burned raw from his weekend beard. Lying on
our backs in the parking lot, staring up at the one star that came through
the streetlights, I asked Tyler what he'd been fighting.
Tyler said, his father.
Maybe we didn't need a father to complete ourselves. There's nothing
personal about who you fight in fight club. You fight to fight. You're not
supposed to talk about fight club, but we talked and for the next couple of
weeks, guys met in that parking lot after the bar had closed, and by the
time it got cold, another bar offered the basement where we meet now.
When fight club meets, Tyler gives the rules he and I decided. "Most of
you," Tyler yells in the cone of light in the center of the basement full of
men, "you're here because someone broke the rules. Somebody told you
about fight club."
Tyler says, "Well, you better stop talking or you'd better start another fight
club because next week you put your name on a list when you get here,
and only the first fifty names on the list get in. If you get in, you set up
your fight right away if you want a fight. If you don't want a fight, there
are guys who do, so maybe you should just stay home.
"If this is your first night at fight club," Tyler yells, "you have to fight."
Most guys are at fight club because of something they're too scared to
fight. After a few fights, you're afraid a lot less.
A lot of best friends meet for the first time at fight club. Now I go to
meetings or conferences and see faces at conference tables, accountants
and junior executives or attorneys with broken noses spreading out like an
eggplant under the edges of bandages or they have a couple stitches under
an eye or a jaw wired shut. These are the quiet young men who listen until
it's time to decide.
We nod to each other.
Later, my boss will ask me how I know so many of these guys.
According to my boss, there are fewer and fewer gentlemen in business
and more thugs.
The demo goes on.
Walter from Microsoft catches my eye. Here's a young guy with perfect
teeth and clear skin and the kind of job you bother to write the alumni
magazine about getting. You know he was too young to fight in any wars,
and if his parents weren't divorced, his father was never home, and here
he's looking at me with half my face clean shaved and half a leering bruise
hidden in the dark. Blood shining on my lips. And maybe Walter's
thinking about a meatless, painfree potluck he went to last weekend or the
ozone or the Earth's desperate need to stop cruel product testing on
animals, but probably he's not.

